ISSUE WORKFLOW
==============

One agent, one issue, one conversation. The agent reading this does all of it —
setup, the work, the gate, and landing it — in the main session, where the
programmer can watch it happen. There is no orchestrator and no worker. Do NOT
spawn a subagent for any part of this; the visible progress is the point.

When the issue is landed, the conversation is over. The programmer opens a new
one for the next issue.


CONTEXT YOU WILL NOT HAVE
-------------------------

Assisi is a C++ game engine. These issues are the rendering push, all on one
long-lived branch:

  - Work happens on 'render', not main and not dev. PRs merge into
    'render'. Do not target anything else.

  - The worklist of record is the Linear project "Rendering". Its project
    description carries the plan of record — a dependency-ordered list of the
    issues — and the milestone descriptions carry the scope decisions. Read
    both before starting anything; the issue descriptions are self-contained
    beyond that. The out-of-scope lists (coat, fuzz, anisotropy, thin-film,
    transmission, subsurface, dispersion, OIT, ray tracing) are decisions,
    not oversights — do not build any of it, however natural it looks while
    in there.

  - Linear: team "Engine", project "Rendering". Estimates are in points.

  - The Linear issues are synced to GitHub issues. Every Linear issue carries a
    link to its GitHub twin in its attachments — that is where the GitHub issue
    number comes from. Read it off the issue; never compute it from the ENG
    number. Because of that sync, anything done on the GitHub side shows up in
    Linear on its own. Do not hand-write Linear comments or hand-set issue
    states to report something GitHub already knows. The one exception is "In
    Progress" at pickup: nothing on the GitHub side says the work has started,
    so you set that one by hand.

  - Tests are doctest. Build with `make gd`; run everything with `ctest` from
    out/build/gcc-debug, or run one module's binary directly, e.g.
    out/build/gcc-debug/modules/App/tests/Assisi-App-Tests -tc="some case*".

  - A test that documents a bug which is not fixed yet is marked
    `doctest::should_fail()`. That keeps the suite green while the bug stands,
    and it inverts the moment the bug is fixed — doctest reports "should have
    failed but didn't" and the run goes red until the decorator is removed. Use
    it when an issue asks for coverage of a defect whose fix belongs to a
    different issue, and say so in a comment naming the finding. Never assert
    something a correct fix could not deliver; check first that the assertion
    is satisfiable.

  - Your notification tool is PushNotification. It is a deferred tool: load it
    with ToolSearch("select:PushNotification") before calling it.


HARD LIMITS
-----------

  - Do NOT spawn subagents. Do the work yourself, in this conversation.
  - Do NOT push, open a PR, or merge anything before the programmer approves at
    the gate. Nothing reaches the remote before that, with the single exception
    of the branch creation in step 6.


WHICH ISSUE
-----------

If the programmer named one, that is the issue. If they did not, pick the next
one and say which you picked before you start.

The default order is the plan of record in the Rendering project description.
It is already dependency-ordered, but check the issue's blocking relations
anyway: if an issue is blocked, or another has to land first, do whatever
order actually works.


PART 1 — SETUP
--------------

 1. Assign the issue to Francisco Vivas (DaFrancc) in Linear. The user is
    already in the workspace.
 2. Move the issue to "In Progress" in Linear. Do this at pickup, before any of
    the work — it is what tells the programmer which issue is live right now.
 3. Set the estimate in Linear.
 4. Read the issue description in full.
 5. Get the branch name from the issue (Linear supplies it, e.g. feature/eng-98),
    and the GitHub issue number from the issue's attachments.
 6. Fetch first, and make sure local 'render' is level with the remote. The
    branch is cut from it, and a stale 'render' cuts from the wrong tip.
    Verify it — `git rev-list --left-right --count origin/render...render`
    must be 0 0 before you cut. Do not take "already up to date" on faith; this
    has silently cut a branch eight commits behind before now, and the work had
    to be rebased across a refactor that had landed in between.

    Then create the branch as a linked branch on that GitHub issue:

      gh issue develop <github-issue-number> --base render \
          --name <branch-name-from-linear> --checkout

    One command creates it off 'render', pushes it, links it to the issue,
    and checks it out. Do not create the branch with git and push it by hand:
    that produces a branch GitHub does not associate with the issue, so the
    association never reaches Linear.
 7. Confirm the link took, with `gh issue develop --list <github-issue-number>`.
    The link is the announcement — GitHub carries it to Linear on its own. Do
    not post a Linear comment or move the issue state to say the branch exists;
    the only state you set by hand is the "In Progress" of step 2.

    This is the one remote action allowed before approval; it publishes an empty
    branch, nothing else. `gh issue develop` cannot adopt a branch that is
    already on the remote, so if an unlinked one is sitting there, delete it
    (`git push origin --delete <branch-name>`, which leaves local commits alone)
    and then run the command above.


PART 2 — THE WORK
-----------------

 8. Make a plan. The programmer does NOT need to approve it; it exists so you go
    in with one. Say it out loud in the conversation — being watchable is the
    reason this runs in the main session.
 9. If the plan needs a decision only the programmer can make, stop and ask
    before continuing.
10. Write the test cases first, where a test would prove the bug exists or is
    genuinely needed for correctness. Do not write vacuous tests — a test that
    passes whether or not the behaviour works is worse than no test. Confirm
    each new test fails when the behaviour it names is broken.
11. Do the work.
12. Verify it. Building is not verifying: run the tests.
13. Commit. The final commit title must contain "Fixes ENG-#", which closes the
    Linear issue on merge.


PART 3 — THE GATE
-----------------

14. Stop. Report in the conversation: what was done, what the commit is, the
    test results, and any setback or surprise worth knowing. Then send a push
    notification with a short, plain summary and any setbacks — brief, no
    essays. Send it even if the programmer appears to be present.
15. Wait. The programmer may ask questions. Approval is what releases the rest;
    nothing below happens without it.


PART 4 — LANDING IT (only after approval)
-----------------------------------------

16. Push the commits.
17. Open a PR with gh, merging into 'render'.
18. Title the PR "Fixes ENG-#". Same reason as the commit title — belt and
    braces on closing the Linear issue.
19. The PR has no description.
20. Set the PR assignee in gh to DaFrancc. If that is not possible, skip it.
21. Merge the PR.
22. Delete the feature branch, locally and on the remote.
23. Pull the merge into local 'render': check it out, fast-forward it from
    origin, and confirm the work is actually in it — not just merged on GitHub.
    Leave the repo sitting on an up-to-date 'render', which is what the next
    issue branches from.
24. Say the issue is landed and stop. Do not start the next one — the programmer
    opens a new conversation for that.


WHEN TO INTERRUPT THE PROGRAMMER
--------------------------------

Only three times:
  - A problem in the plan.
  - A problem in the implementation.
  - The approval gate at step 14.

Nothing else. Assume the programmer is away from the terminal, and send the
notification even if they appear to be present.


CONVENTIONS
-----------

  - No commit trailers of any kind. No Co-Authored-By, no session URL. The
    programmer is the sole author.
  - Explicit-width integer types: int32_t, uint32_t, and so on. Never bare int
    or unsigned.
  - Never add a `throw`. Catch what dependencies throw at our boundary and
    return std::expected.
  - Build with the make targets (make gd, make gcc-debug), not raw cmake.
  - Never use sed, not even to page a file. Use the file tools.
  - Churn is affordable. Do not scope a refactor down to spare call sites.
  - Do not edit plan or design documents without an explicit go-ahead.
